From: cp368202@ohiou.edu (Chris Priest)
Date: Wed, 1 Jun 2016 17:21:54 -0700
Subject: [bitcoin-dev] BIP draft: Memo server
Message-ID: <CAAcC9ysPMmTiEX3TS+=2t6FtNSYMXdz+h+qi=KQyTjS7CsbsxQ@mail.gmail.com>

I'm currently working on a wallet called multiexplorer. You can check
it at https://multiexplorer.com/wallet

It supports all the BIPs, including the ones that lets you export and
import based on a 12 word mnemonic. This lets you easily import
addresses from one wallet to the next. For instance, you can
copy+paste your 12 word mnemonic from Coinbase CoPay into
Multiexplorer wallet and all of your address and transaction history
is imported (except CoPay doesn't support altcoins, so it will just be
your BTC balance that shows up). Its actually pretty cool, but not
everything is transferred over.

For instance, some people like to add little notes such as "paid sally
for lunch at Taco Bell", or "Paid rent" to each transaction they make
through their wallet's UI. When you export and import into another
wallet these memos are lost, as there is no way for this data to be
encoded into the mnemonic.

For my next project, I want to make a stand alone system for archiving
and serving these memos. After it's been built and every wallet
supports the system, you should be able to move from one wallet by
just copy+pasting the mnemonic into the next wallet without losing
your memos. This will make it easier for people to move off of old
wallets that may not be safe anymore, to more modern wallets with
better security features. Some people may want to switch wallets, but
since its much harder to backup memos, people may feel stuck using a
certain wallet. This is bad because it creates lock in.

I wrote up some details of how the system will work:

https://github.com/priestc/bips/blob/master/memo-server.mediawiki

Basically the memos are encrypted and then sent to a server where the
memo is stored. An API exists that allows wallets to get the memos
through an HTTPS interface. There isn't one single memo server, but
multiple memo servers all ran by different people. These memo servers
share data amongst each other through a sync process.

The specifics of how the memos will be encrypted have not been set in
stone yet. The memos will be publicly propagated, so it is important
that they are encrypted strongly. I'm not a cryptography expert, so
someone else has to decide on the scheme that is appropriate.
