From: jgarzik@exmulti.com (Jeff Garzik)
Date: Tue, 27 Nov 2012 15:34:08 -0500
Subject: [Bitcoin-development] [ANNOUNCE] picocoin and libccoin -- C-based
	bitcoin library and client
Message-ID: <CA+8xBpf6kGYPiG7HvyG+2pCAcsBN8_T4MVFnW+rwvE68BiZJsQ@mail.gmail.com>

Source code URL:  https://github.com/jgarzik/picocoin/

I'd like to announce another bitcoin implementation, which is really
two useful pieces in one:

     libccoin - a bitcoin library, written in C
     picocoin - A lightweight, C-based SPV bitcoin wallet client

libccoin supports all key network datastructures (block, transaction,
etc.), script parsing and validation, transaction and block
validation, a "headers-only" or full block database, and many other
features essential to any bitcoin client.  libccoin passes all key
encoding, script and transaction tests available in the Satoshi
reference bitcoin client.

picocoin is much more under construction.  When complete, it will be a
very low resource, command line / JSON-driven bitcoin wallet.
Advanced security features already implemented include required wallet
encryption, fork-based process separation of P2P networking and wallet
(and chroot/SELinux jailing coming soon), something that the reference
Satoshi client does not even support.

Status:  Alpha quality, developer release.  Passes reference client
base58/script/transaction tests, but is still a developer-only
preview.

Feature list:

    Intended to be a full-feature bitcoin support library.  The
library will not be limited to "what picocoin needs."
    Supports all core data structures and network messages
    Full script implementation
    Passes hundreds of available reference client tests
    Supports multiple block chains: main or testnet3
    Very low resource usage (cpu, disk, and memory)
    Small codebase (both source code and compiled object)
    Supports advanced thin-client features such as "bloom filtering",
an upcoming proposal that will reduce client bandwidth usage.
    Works on big endian machines, as well as little endian machines
    Multi-platform: Linux supported currently.  Should work on
OSX/BSD/Windows with minimal modifications.
    libccoin should work on Windows.  picocoin will work on Windows,
but be a bit less secure than other platforms due to lack of fork.
    Improved security:  fork-based process separation firewall between
networking and wallet code -- your wallet is never directly exposed to
the network.
    Follows the philosophy of "do, not hype."  This library is already
far more secure and capable than other libraries hyped as the "future
of bitcoin" by their authors.

Code contributions are welcome (see github URL above).
Comments are welcome.
Donations are welcome too (1BrufViLKnSWtuWGkryPsKsxonV2NQ7Tcj).

-- 
Jeff Garzik
exMULTI, Inc.
jgarzik at exmulti.com


